by now you've seen a couple different
learning algorithms linear regression
and logistic regression that work well
for many problems but when you apply
them to certain machine learning
applications they can run into a problem
called overfitting they can cause them
to perform very poorly what I'd like to
do in this video is explain to you what
is this overfitting problem and in the
next few videos after this we'll talk
about the technique called
regularization that will allow us to
ameliorate or to reduce this overfitting
problem and get these learning
algorithms to maybe work much better so
what is overfitting
let's keep using our running example of
predicting housing prices with linear
regression where we want to predict the
price as a function of the size of the
hulls one thing we could do is fit a
linear function to this data and if we
do that maybe we get that sort of
straight line fit to the data but this
isn't a very good model looking at the
data it seems pretty clear that as the
size of the holes increases the housing
prices plateau or kind of flattens out
as we move to the right and so this
algorithm doesn't fit the training set
very well and we call this problem under
fitting and another term for this is
that this algorithm has high bias um
both of these roughly mean that is just
not even fitting the training data very
well
the term bias is kind of a historical or
technical one but the idea is that if
we're fitting a straight line to the
data then as as if the algorithm has a
very strong preconception or a very
strong bias that housing prices are
going to vary linearly with their size
and despite the data to the contrary
despite the evidence to the contrary is
preconceptions slow or bias still causes
it to fit a straight line and this ends
up being a poor fit to the data now in
the middle we could fit a quadratic
function to the data and with this data
set we fit a quadratic function maybe we
get that kind of curve and that works
pretty well and
the other extreme would be if we were to
fit say a fourth order polynomial to the
data so here we have five parameters
theta 0 through theta 4 and with dads we
can actually fill the curve that passes
through all five of our training
examples we might get a curve that looks
like this that on the one hand seems to
do a very good job
fitting the training set then it passes
through all of my data at least but this
is still a very Wiggly curve right so
I'm going up and down all over the place
and we don't actually think that's such
a good model for predicting housing
prices so this problem we call
overfitting and another term for this is
that this algorithm has high variance
the term high variance is another sort
of historical or technical one but the
intuition is that if we're fitting such
a high order polynomial then the
hypothesis can fit you know it's almost
as if it can fit almost any function and
the space of possible hypotheses is just
too large where it's too variable and we
don't have enough data to constrain it
to give us a good hypothesis so that's
called overfitting and in the middle
there isn't really a name but I'm just
going to write you're just right where a
second-degree polynomial quadratic
function seems to be just right for
fitting this data to recap a bit the
problem of overfitting comes when if we
have too many features then the learn
hypothesis may fit the training set very
well so your cost function may actually
be very close to zero or maybe even zero
exactly but you may then end up with a
curve like this that you know tries too
hard to fit the training set so that it
even fails to generalize to new examples
that it fails to predict prices on new
examples well and hear the term
generalized refers to how well a
hypothesis applies even to new examples
that is do data to houses that it hasn't
seen in the training set
on this slide we looked at overfitting
for the case of linear regression a
similar thing can apply to logistic
regression as well here's a logistic
regression example with two features x1
and x2 one thing we could do is fit
logistic regression with just a simple
hypothesis like this where as usual G is
my sigmoid function and if you do that
you end up with the hypothesis trying to
use maybe just a straight line to
separate the positive and the negative
examples and this doesn't look like a
very good fit to the hypothesis and so
once again this is an example of
underfitting or of a hypothesis having
high bias in contrast if you were to add
to your features these quadratic terms
then you could get a decision boundary
that might look more like this and you
know that's a pretty good fit to the
data probably what - probably about as
good as we could get on this training
set and finally at the other extreme if
you were to fit a very high order
polynomial if you were to generate lots
of high order polynomial terms as
features then logistic regression may
contort itself we try really hard to
find a decision boundary that um fits
your training data go to great lengths
to contort itself to fit every single
training example well and you know if
the features x1 and x2 offer predicting
maybe the cancer to the you know cancer
is a malignant benign breast tumors this
doesn't this really doesn't look like a
very good hypothesis for making
predictions and so once again this is an
instance of overfitting and of
hypothesis having high variance and not
really and being unlikely to generalize
well to new examples
later in this course when we talk about
debugging and diagnosing things they can
go wrong with learning algorithms will
give you specific tools to recognize
when overfitting and also when
underfitting may be occurring but for
now let's talk about the problem of if
we think overfitting is occurring what
can we do to address it in the previous
examples we had one or two dimensional
data so we could just plot the
hypothesis and see what was going on and
select the appropriate degree polynomial
so earlier for the housing prices
example we could just plot the
hypothesis and you know maybe see that
it was fitting the sort of very Wiggly
function that goes all over the place to
predict housing prices and we could then
use figures like these to select an
appropriate degree polynomial so
plotting the hypothesis could be one way
to try to decide what degree polynomial
to use but that doesn't always work and
in fact more often we may have learning
problems that where we just have a lot
of features and there is not just a
matter of selecting what degree
polynomial and in fact it when we have
so many features it also becomes much
harder to plot the data and becomes much
harder to visualize it to decide what
features to keep or not so concretely if
we're trying to predict housing prices
sometimes we can just have a lot of
different features and all of these
features seem you know maybe they seem
kind of useful but if we have a lot of
features and very little training data
then overfitting can become a problem in
order to address overfitting there are
two main options for things that we can
do the first option is to try to reduce
the number of features
concretely one thing we could do is
manually look through the list of
features and use that to try to decide
which are the more important features
and therefore which are the features we
should keep and which other features we
should throw out later in this class
we'll also talk about model selection
algorithms which are algorithms for
automatically deciding which features
the key and which features to throw out
this idea of reducing the number of
features can work well and can reduce
overfitting
and when we talk about model selection
we'll go into this in much greater depth
but the disadvantage is that by throwing
away some of the features is also
throwing away some of the information
you have about the problem for example
maybe all of those features are actually
useful for predicting the price of a
house so maybe we don't actually want to
throw some of our information or throw
some of our features away the second
option which we'll talk in which we'll
talk about in the next few videos is
regularization here we're going to keep
all the features but we're going to
reduce the magnitude or the values of
the parameters theta J and this method
works well we'll see when we have a lot
of features each of which contributes a
little bit to predicting the value of y
like we had like we saw in the housing
price prediction example where we could
have a lot of features each of which are
you know somewhat useful so maybe we
don't want to throw them away so this
describes the idea of regularization at
a very high level and I realized that
all of these details probably don't make
sense to you yet but in the next video
we'll start to formulate exactly how to
apply regularization and exactly what
regularization means and then we'll
start to figure out how to use this to
make our learning algorithms work well
and avoid overfitting